So in the previous two videos
we've been talking about classes.
It's now time to continue and
talk about constructors which
are an important part of using classes.
But before that it's challenge time.
I'm gonna challenge your understanding
of the previous two videos.
So here's what I want you to do.
So the challenge is to create a new
class which is going to be used for
a bank account.
So the fields for the class will be
the account number, the balance.
In other words,
how much money is in the account?
The customer name,
the email address and the phone number.
So you want to also create getters and
setters for each field.
And in addition create two
additional methods for this class.
The first method should allow
the customer to deposit funds.
So that method should then increment
the balance field with the amount.
But also you should allow the customer
to withdraw funds with another method.
And that method should deduct
from the balance field but
also not allow the withdrawal to complete
if there are insufficient funds, and
I think I spelled there wrong there.
And what you wanna do is also create
various code in the main class,
I'm talking about the one
created initially by IntelliJ,
just to confirm that your code is working.
And you might also wanna add some
system tied up print lines to the two
methods above as well to determine
how much was deposited or withdrawn.
So pause the video and try that out, and
when you're ready to see my solution,
come back and we'll go through it.
How did you get on?
Did you figure it out?
Let me show you my solution.
So what we're going to do is
create firstly, a new class.
I'm gonna go into my package as before,
and select New.
And I'm just going to call
this Java class Account.
Now we also need some fields,
so we need the account number.
I'm gonna use a String.
You could use a number if you wanted to.
And we also need the balance, so
I'm gonna use a double for the balance.
And we'll put accountBalance.
And the customer's name.
Email address.
And their phone number
are all gonna be strings.
And probably there,
I'll get the name right.
I'm just gonna actually put balance and
number.
You could use either, but
because the class name is called Account.
We know that it's based on an account, so
therefore when we're creating a field
called number it's for the account class.
We don't really need to put
the word account there in twice.
Next, create getters and setters.
And I'm gonna show you a trick to quickly
create getters and setters using IntelliJ,
cuz it's such a common thing
that you do regularly.
There's a way to automate that and
that's to go into the Code menu and
click on Generate, where you can see on
my computer Cmd+N does the same thing.
So click on Generate, and
you can click on either Getter or
Setter, Getter and Setter.
So I'm gonna click on both, then you
need to select which fields you want.
So I can select one or more, and you can
see the f indicated these are private
fields and the f of course, if fields.
Click on OK.
Once I do that,
IntelliJ creates all the code for us.
How nice is that?
Saves you a lot of typing,
heck a lot of typing.
So that's a pretty cool way to very
quickly get us setters created.
So make sure you check that out.
We'll be referring to that for
other types of code generation later.
So that's our getters and setters created.
Next, we need to create two methods,
a deposit and a withdrawal.
So we can start off by creating
the one for the deposit.
So it's gonna be a void method.
So that's public void deposit and
we're gonna pass the parameter
of the depositAmount.
And then to add to the balance,
we wouldn't want to do
balance = depositAmount.
That's going to replace the amount,
the amount that's currently
set from the balance.
What we wanna do is add to the balance
by using the plus equal operator.
So that will then add to that balance and
for clarification,
we can use this to make sure that this
is the field that we're updating.
So that's deposit function.
And for the withdrawal one,
we'll do public void withdrawal.
And we're also gonna find the amount, and
we're gonna pass the amount that we wanna
withdrawal, so we'll put withdrawal.
So what we can do now is test to see
whether there was sufficient funds
available to process the withdrawal.
So the easiest way to do that
would be to put if balance,
the current balance in the bank account
minus the amount that we wanna withdraw.
If the balance of those two
is less than or equal to 0,
it means they have a good enough money.
So we're gonna put that message and
put Only balance available.
Withdrawal not processed".
now I'm adding this bit of video after
this original video was recorded and
that's to let you know that there's a
slight bug with the withdrawal method
you can see that I've actually got
balanced take withdrawal amount less
than or equal to zero and in fact what
it should be is balanced take withdrawal
amount less than zero and you can see
the equivalent or the correct code on
the screen now now the reasons for that
is going to be explained fully in the
next video
where we actually go through the code to
change it but I'm bringing it up here
now just in case you're looking at that
and wondering what's going on now the
reason that we want to do in less then
instead of less than equal is because we
only want to check to see if we're going
into the red in other words if we're
going into the minus it's quite
possible if you had ten dollars in the
bank account to withdraw ten dollars and
leaving a balance of zero so that's
quite possible and you would do that
anytime you close the bank account so
consequently the less than or equal to
is actually wrong here because we're
actually showing an error we can a print
out an error if the withdrawal is unable
to be processed if the balance is less
than zero not if it's equal to zero but
again this will be fully explained in
the next video I'm just bringing it to
your attention here
Else, so what's happened in this
case is we were able to process it.
We're going to put balance
-= withdrawalAmount.
So we're going to deduct the withdrawal
amount from the balance, and
we're gonna put.
Withdrawal of withdrawalAmount processed,
Remaining balance = balance.
So that's it,
that's the withdrawal method.
And here we might just put
deposit of depositAmount
made New balance is pass balance.
And to be consistent,
I should really be putting this dot.
Obviously it hasn't got a problem because
the parameter that we're passing isn't
the same name.
But one thing I'd like to tell you to do,
is to try and
be consistent with your naming and
your code.
So if you're gonna do it sometimes, you
should be actually doing it all the time.
So in this case, I'm gonna use this dot
when referring to fields in our classes.
So that's our functionality for
our account class.
We've now written everything and
we've got our deposit and
withdrawal functions working.
So what we now need to do is
go back to our main class and
test that this is working.
What we're gonna do is go there, and
we're going to create a new one first.
We'll call it Account
bobsAccount = new account.
And I'm going to do a test first,
I'm going to put
bobsAccount.withdraw(100.0).
Let's try running that and
see what happens.
Only 0.0 available,
withdrawal not processed.
So that's good,
it's doing what it should be doing.
So that's good.
Next, we'll do a bobsAccount.deposit,
let's deposit $50.
And then we'll try and
do the same withdrawal again.
And that should still file, but
it should give us a different balance.
Let's try running that.
And your 50.0 available
withdraw not process.
That's good.
So now we'll type, bobsAccount.
Let's do another deposit, deposit of $51.
And with bobsAccount.withdrawal from 100,
which should now succeed because
we've got $101 at this point, so
we should have a remaining balance of $1.
Let's run that.
Deposit of $51 made.
New balance is 101.
Withdrawal of $100 processed.
Remaining balance is $1.0.
So that's it.
That's the challenge.
Hopefully you got something
along those lines.
And you've now really
created your own class for
the first time which is fantastic.
Now of course, we didn't actually
set any other values there.
If we wanted to set the other values
what we would've had to do is done
is something like bobsAccount.set(the
set number, 12345') for
argument's sake, the account number.
Now, bobsAccount.setBalance(0.00).
BobsAccount.setCustomerName("Bob Brown").
BobsAccount.setCustomerEmailAddress
("myemail@bob.com").
And
bobsAccount.setCustomerPhoneNumber("(087)
123-4567").
So you can see there's lots typing there
if we wanted to set the field values for
the first time.
And you mentioned if you had 10 or 20 or
30 fields can be quite a bit
to code to actually do that.
There is another way of doing this
when you're creating an object for
the first time using a class,
and that's using constructors.
So what you can do with a constructor is
you can essentially do all these commands
here to set the initial parameters or
the initial values of the fields and
any other initialization you wanna
perform in the one hit using constructor.
So let's see if whether we can replace
this by editing our account on Java and
adding a constructor.
Well first, it turns out that
a constructor is actually created for
you automatically by Java.
And when you actually type new and
the name of the class in brackets.
This is actually calling the constructor.
So this actually calling that special
method that creates the class.
So it's purpose is to physically create
the object from the class for us.
So I'm gonna go into our account class,
and
we're going to create our own constructor.
So what we're going to do is do public and
you have to type the actual name,
the exact name of the class.
Notice how I didn't put a void or
a type there, a return type.
Constructor is something special.
It has only the access modifier and
the name of the class.
And also has the number
of parameters like so.
What I'm going to do just to show that
this is working I'm gonna put ("Empty
constructor called"), sometime Nothing
else there, I've created the constructor.
This is normally created for
you automatically, but
what I've done is I've
physically typed it in.
So what will happen is when
we go to compile this Java,
we'll look at that and go okay, you're own
constructor, I won't try and overwrite it.
So if we run this now,
what we should see at the top is
that message that I've just added.
You can see here at the top now,
Empty constructor called.
So when we type new Account with
brackets with no parameters,
that actually executed this
constructor for us automatically.
So that's what the purpose
of the constructor is for
you to essentially initialize
the object that you're creating and
do whatever else you wanna do at
the time the object is being created.
So it's only ever called once at
the start when we're creating the object.
So let's add on a constructor and
set some parameters up, so
we can set these values in the constructor
instead of using the setters.
So to do that, they come back here and
can create another constructor
because like methods
constructors can be overloaded.
We can have more than one constructor
provided we change the number of
parameters.
We're gonna change
the number of parameters,
I'm gonna go with public account.
Now what we're gonna do here,
is we're going to
initialize the numbers we're
gonna put String Number,
double balance, string custom.
And you'll notice IntelliJ
is trying to help us now,
it's going clearly you're
creating a constructor
which fields do you wanna be included
as parameters in this constructor?
So it's quite handy, so
I'm gonna specify all of them.
So String customerEmailAddress and String,
go down to the next line,
customerPhoneNumber.
Then what we do, we just do this
we've seen this before in the setter,
this.number = number,
this.balance = balance,
this.customerName = customerName,
this.customerEmailAddress =
customerEmailAddress and
this.customerPhoneNumber +
customerPhoneNumber.
That's now setting the field
values in the constructor.
What we now need to do is
call that constructor, and
we're creating the object.
So to call a constructor what we do
is instead of having no parameters,
we pass parameters like ("12345",
0.00, "Bob Brown", "myemail @bob.com" and
"(087) 1234567").
Let me close off the bracket and
we fix the top of might there.
I forgot a quite the looks of it.
So that's the line.
Now that we've done that,
these are now redundant.
We don't need to do that because
the constructor has done that for us.
And just to confirm that that works,
we can go back here and we can put.
Account constructor
with parameters called.
If you try run that now.
I can't construct that parameters called
because we specified you account and
then the parameters.
And the values have been automatically
updated in the constructor.
And we can confirm that
by just typing a few out.
We can do (bobsAccount.getnumber());
(bobsAccount.getbalance()); let's
just do those two and run that.
And we can see 12345 and 0.00, so they
were actually updated by the constructor.
Now I mentioned before that
constructors can be overloaded, so
we can have more than one.
So in line with that,
what we can do is we can call one
constructor from another constructor.
And that sounds a little bit confusing but
the idea of that would be, if let's say,
that if an empty constructor is called.
In other words one without any parameters,
perhaps we want to create the object
with some default values.
So what do I mean by that.
So in this scenario,
what we could do is say okay,
if the empty constructor is called.
We want to actually call the constructor
with all these parameters, and
we want to issue some default values for
the five fields.
So to do that we type this is
a special case of the word this.
We type brackets and
we pass our parameters so
we might put "56789" and
the balance 2.50 customer
name "Default name",
"Default address", "default phone".
So what we're doing there with
this is a special use of this you
won't see anywhere else.
This is calling another
constructor within a constructor.
So what we're saying here is look,
if you try and
create an object form this class and
you don't get me any parameters,
these are the parameters that I'm going
to use when creating this object.
This is optional,
it's not something you have to do but
there can be situations
where you wanna do that.
When you wanna make sure that the class
is created with all the field set and
you could issue some default
constructors to do that.
Now one other thing to keep in mind is
using this to call another constructor
is what you need to do is make sure that's
the very first line that's executed.
In other words, we couldn't paste in the
system.out.printIn as the first line in
the constructor.
Cuz it's gonna actually come and say,
call to 'this() must be the first
statement in constructor body.
This is just constructors
we're talking about.
It has to be the very
first line that's code.
Let me set that back.
So we go back to our main class and
run it again.
Now it's both doing exactly the same as
you can see, but let's change that now.
And we'll set it to new account,
and I'll just comment out the rest.
So empty again, like so and
we'll just comment the next line as well.
Now if we run it using
the empty constructor,
we should actually get the right
values from our default constructor.
And you can see what's happened here.
The account constructor with
parameters was called and
the empty constructor was called.
So they're actually both
called as you can see there.
The reason why you see it in that
order of course makes sense.
If you come back here to the account.Java,
the very first line of the account
constructor called the other constructor.
Because then after that was finished
that we actually printed this out.
So you can say that what happened was the
default constructor the empty constructor
was called first.
It's first line called the other one
which then printed out that message.
So if you're looking at that and
think well why is the account constructor
with parameters called first.
It wasn't actually called first, it's just
displayed that way with our messages.
So as you can see, 56789,
and 2.5 was actually passed.
So it's obviously working,
the default constructor was working.
I'm gonna pause the video here, and
let's come back in the next video and
finish off our discussion
about constructors.